Feat/update guide (#209)
deeppavlov/dialog_flow_framework: docs/source/user_guides/basic_conceptions.rst

Introduction
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Dialog Flow Framework (DFF) is a modern tool for designing conversational services.

DFF introduces a specialized Domain-Specific Language (DSL) based on standard Python functions and data structures
which makes it very easy for developers with any level of expertise to design a script for user - bot interaction. 

> The script comes in a form of the *dialog graph* structure that works like a finite state automaton with

Author: removed

each node equal to a specific state of the dialog, i.e. to a conversation turn.
The graph includes the majority of the conversation logic, and covers one or several user scenarios, all in a single Python dict.

In this tutorial, we describe the basics of DFF API,
and walk you through the process of creating and maintaining a conversational service with the help of DFF.

=========================================
Creating Conversational Services with DFF
=========================================

Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~

To get started with DFF, you need to install its core dependencies, which can be done using the following command:

   .. code-block:: shell

>       pip3 install dff

Author: Updated

Defining Dialogue Goals and User Scenarios
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To create a conversational service using Dialog Flow Framework (DFF), you start by defining the overall dialogue goal 
and breaking down the dialogue into smaller scenarios based on the user intents or actions that you want to cover.
DFF's Domain-Specific Language makes it easy to break down the dialog script into `flows`, i.e. named node groups,

> unified by a specific purpose.

Author: Updated

            Respond with "Pong!"
            Repeat this behaviour

    If user writes something else:
        Respond with "That was against the rules"
        Go to responding with "Hi! Let's play ping-pong!" if user writes anything

This leaves us with a single dialog flow in the dialog graph that we lay down below, with the annotations for
each part of the graph available under the code snippet.

Example flow & script
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: python

> 

Reviewer: Maybe add line numbers?
```suggestion
    :linenos:

```

Author: Updated

        fallback_label=("ping_pong_flow", "fallback_node"),
    )

    if __name__ == "__main__":

>         pipeline.run()

Reviewer: Why remove this block? Now it is unclear how to use pipeline after you've written the script.

* ``ping_pong_flow`` is our behaviour flow; a flow is a separated dialog, containing linked
  conversation nodes and possibly some extra data, transitions, etc.

* A node object is an atomic part of the script.
  The required fields of a node object are ``RESPONSE`` and ``TRANSITIONS``.

* The ``RESPONSE`` field specifies the response that the dialog agent gives to the user in the current turn.

* The ``TRANSITIONS`` field specifies the edges of the dialog graph that link the dialog states.

>   This is a dictionary that maps labels of other nodes to conditions, i.e. to callback functions that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This is a dictionary that maps labels of other nodes to conditions, i.e. callback functions that
```

Author: Updated

  return `True` or `False`. These conditions determine whether respective nodes can be visited
  in the next turn.
  In the example script, we use standard transitions: ``exact_match`` requires the user request to
  fully match the provided text, while ``true`` always allows a transition. However, passing custom
  callbacks that implement arbitrary logic is also an option.

> * ``start_node`` is the initial node, which contains an empty response and only transfers user to an other node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``start_node`` is the initial node, which contains an empty response and only transfers user to another node
```

that do not trigger any of the transitions specified in the script graph. 
To cover that use case, DFF requires you to define a fallback node that the agent will move to
when no adequate transition has been found.

Like other nodes, the fallback node can either use a message or a callback to produce a response
which gives you a lot of freedom in creating situationally appropriate error messages.
Create friendly error messages and, if possible, suggest alternative options. 
This ensures a smoother user experience even when the bot encounters unexpected inputs.

.. code-block:: python

    def fallback_response(ctx: Context, _: Pipeline, *args, **kwargs) -> Message:
        """
        Generate a special fallback response if the initial user utterance is not 'Hello!'.
        """
        if ctx.last_request is not None:
            if ctx.last_request.text != "Hello!" and ctx.last_label is None: # start node
                return Message(text="You should've started the dialog with 'Hello!'")
            else:
                note = f"You should've written 'Ping', not '{ctx.last_request.text}'!"
                return Message(text=f"That was against the rules! {note}")
        else:

>             raise RuntimeError("Error occurred: last request is None!")

Reviewer: I think we should explain in this guide how exceptions raised in services / handlers are processed (e.g. what happens when a response function raises an exception or returns garbage).

Or explain that in the context user guide and link to it here.
Or create a separate user guide about exceptions.

>   no transition for the message given by user is found.

Reviewer: I think it would be more clear this way:
```
* ``fallback_node`` is an "exception handling node"; user will be transferred here if
  no ``TRANSITIONS`` condition is satisfied.
```

Author: Updated

  It transfers user to ``greeting_node`` no matter what user writes.

* ``pipeline`` is a special object that traverses the script graph based on the values of user input.
  It is also capable of executing custom actions that you want to run on every turn of the conversation.
  The pipeline can be initialized with a script, and with labels of two nodes:

>   the entrypoint of the graph, aka the 'start node', and the fallback node

Reviewer: Both should either have or not have quotes.

Author: Done

>   (if not provided it equals the former per default).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  (if not provided it defaults to 'start node').
```

Author: Updated

.. note::

    See `tutorial on basic dialog structure`_.

> Processing Definition

Reviewer: There has to be a link somewhere in this user guide to the `pipeline.2_pre_and_post_processors` tutorial. It explains processor signature and `Context.misc`.
Maybe a note like "Below are the various ways you could customize your script. In order to understand them, please read the 2_pre_and_post_processors tutorial".

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Processing user requests and extracting additional parameters is a crucial part of building a conversational bot. 
DFF allows you to define how user requests will be processed to extract additional parameters.
This is done by passing callbacks to a special ``PROCESSING`` fields in a Node dict.

* User input can be altered with ``PRE_RESPONSE_PROCESSING`` and will happen **before** response generation. See `tutorial on pre-response processing`_.

> * Node response can be modified with ``PRE_TRANSITIONS_PROCESSING`` and will happen **after** response generation. See `tutorial on pre-transition processing`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Node response can be modified with ``PRE_TRANSITIONS_PROCESSING`` and will happen **after** response generation but **before** transition to the next node. See `tutorial on pre-transition processing`_.
```

Author: Updated

Depending on your bot's requirements and the goal of the dialog, you may need to interact with external databases or APIs to retrieve data. 
For instance, if a user wants to know a schedule, you may need to access a database and extract parameters such as date and location.

.. code-block:: python

    import requests
    ...
    def use_api_processing(ctx: Context, _: Pipeline) -> Context:

>         ctx.misc["api_call_results"] = requests.get("http://schedule.api/day1")

Reviewer: Maybe add a small comment about `misc` (that it is used to store data).

Author: Added a comment

>         ctx.misc["api_call_results"] = requests.get("http://schedule.api/day1")

Reviewer: I don't think that `Request` object are serializable and, as such, trying to store this context in a db would break the bot.
I think we should include some warning about it.

Author: Updated

        return Message(text="Here is a list of cafes.")

Handling Fallbacks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In DFF, you should provide handling for situations where the user makes requests
that do not trigger any of the transitions specified in the script graph. 
To cover that use case, DFF requires you to define a fallback node that the agent will move to
when no adequate transition has been found.

Like other nodes, the fallback node can either use a message or a callback to produce a response
which gives you a lot of freedom in creating situationally appropriate error messages.
Create friendly error messages and, if possible, suggest alternative options. 
This ensures a smoother user experience even when the bot encounters unexpected inputs.

.. code-block:: python

    def fallback_response(ctx: Context, _: Pipeline, *args, **kwargs) -> Message:
        """
        Generate a special fallback response if the initial user utterance is not 'Hi'.
        """
        last_flow, last_node = ctx.last_label
        if ctx.last_request.text != "Hi" and last_node == "start_node":
            return Message(text="You should've started the dialog with 'Hello!'")
        else:

>             raise RuntimeError("Error occurred: last request is None!")

Reviewer: This function doesn't make sense now.:
1. "Hi" vs "Hello!"; 
2. An error is raised even if `last_request` is not None (e.g. if `last_node` is not "start_node").

Testing and Debugging
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Periodically testing the conversational service is crucial to ensure it works correctly.
You should also be prepared to debug the code and dialogue logic if problems are discovered during testing. 
Thorough testing helps identify and resolve any potential problems in the conversation flow.

The basic testing procedure offered by DFF is end-to-end testing of the pipeline and the script
which ensures that the pipeline yields correct responses for any given input.
It requires a sequence of user request - bot response pairs that form the happy path of your
conversational service.

.. code-block:: python

    happy_path = (
        (Message(text="Hi"), Message(text="Hi! Let's play ping-pong!")),
        (Message(text="Ping!"), Message(text="Pong!"))
    )

A special function is then used to ascertain complete identity of the messages taken from

> the happy path and the pipeline.

Reviewer: I think this needs more explanation:
```suggestion
the happy path and the pipeline. The function will play out a dialog with the pipeline acting as a user while checking returned messages.
```

Author: Updated

.. code-block:: python

    from dff.testing.common import check_happy_path

    check_happy_path(pipeline, happy_path)

Monitoring and Analytics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Setting up bot performance monitoring and usage analytics is essential to monitor its operation and identify potential issues. 
Monitoring helps you understand how users are interacting with the bot and whether any improvements are needed.
Analytics data can provide valuable insights for refining the bot's behavior and responses.

DFF provides a `statistics` module as an out-of-the-box solution for collecting arbitrary statistical metrics
from your service. Setting up the data collection is as easy as instantiating the relevant class in the same
context with the pipeline. 
What's more, the data you obtain can be visualized right away using Apache Superset as a charting engine.

.. note::

    More information is available in the respective tutorial.

>     TODO: insert link

Reviewer: Insert link.

Author: Done

Iterative Improvement
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To continually enhance your chat-bot's performance, monitor user feedback and analyze data on bot usage.
For instance, the statistics or the charts may reveal that some flow is visited by users more frequently or
less frequently than planned. This would mean that adjustments to the transition structure
of the graph need to be made.

Gradually improve the transition logic and response content based on the data received. 
This iterative approach ensures that the bot becomes more effective over time.

Data Protection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Data protection is a critical consideration in bot development, especially when handling sensitive information.

.. note::

    The DFF framework helps ensure the safety of your application by storing the history and other user data present
    in the `Context` object under unique ids and abstracting the storage logic away from the user interface.
    As a result, it offers the basic level of data protection making it impossible to gain unlawful access to personal information.

> Documentation

Reviewer: Do we need this section?

Author: It was there in the initial plan. We can expand it so that it actually starts making sense

~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Creating documentation is essential for teamwork and future bot maintenance. 

> Document how the intent works, its parameters, and expected outcomes. 

Reviewer: "intent"?

Author: Updated

> This documentation serves as a reference for developers and stakeholders involved in the project.

Reviewer: I don't think "stakeholders" is appropriate in this context. Just "developers" should be fine.

Author: Rewritten

Scaling
~~~~~~~

If your bot becomes popular and requires scaling, consider scalability during development.
Scalability ensures that the bot can handle a growing user base without performance issues.
While having only one application instance will suffice in most cases, there are many ways
how you can adapt the application to a high load environment.

* With the database connection support that DFF offers out of the box, DFF projects can be easily scaled through sharing the same database between multiple application instances. However, using an external database is required due to the fact that this is the only kind of storage that can be efficiently shared between processes.
* Likewise, using multiple database instances to ensure the availability of data is also an option.

> * The structure of the `Context` object makes it easy to shard the data storing different subsets of data across multiple database instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The structure of the `Context` object makes it easy to share the data storing different subsets of data across multiple database instances.
```

Author: This comment refers to sharding (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shard_(database_architecture))

Reviewer: I didn't know that "shard" was used in relation to dbs so I think either this should be rewritten in simpler language (e.g. "partition") or there should be links to information about sharding.

Author: ok

> * The structure of the `Context` object makes it easy to shard the data storing different subsets of data across multiple database instances.

Reviewer: I don't understand this. Could you expand on that point? Does it suggest, for instance, storing requests and responses of context in different databases?

Author: Since we will have separate tables for all of those in the future update, this would be possible. Maybe, it can be useful for some purposes

> Further reading

Reviewer: This section is empty.
![image](https://github.com/deeppavlov/dialog_flow_framework/assets/61429541/bfa05865-f7f9-4cd3-aa5a-78cb88f7f666)

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> .. _tutorial on basic dialog structure: https://deeppavlov.github.io/dialog_flow_framework/tutorials/tutorials.script.core.1_basics.html

Reviewer: Replace these links with relative ones (for this link it should be `../tutorials/tutorials.script.core.1_basics.py`).

Author: Updated
